So many ways to auth, couple ways here
in is probably more than this but
these are the three biggest ones.
One is, outside of graph QL.
So in our case,
we're using an Apollo server.
Apollo server can also be used as
a middleware attached to an existing
Express server.
Or it can be the other way around,
where you attach Express
middleware to an Apollo server.
So either way, that means you
could be running some type of
Logic outside the Apollo
server on your server.
So when I say outside of
GraphQL an example and
that is if you have Apollo
server any GraphQL server
running as no where on Express server,
you might do the authentication logic and
in the middle where before your
execution of a GraphQL server.
And then, you'll find some way to
pass that to the GraphQL execution.
So that's one way you can do it.
Another way is, when you're creating
the context object in GraphQL.
So the context object is when
you initialize the server,
like what we just did when we
created new Apollo server.
You could add a method there,
that creates the context object that's
passed to every single resolver.
That's a place where you could also
do authentication, you could say,
I'm about to create the context, which by
the way, it gets initialized every single
request that that context object
gets created every single request.
So during that creation,
you could say I'm going to go ahead and
do some type of authentication or
authorization here.
The last one is the obvious one,
which is just inside the resolvers.
All the resolvers are encapsulated,
they only know about themselves,
they're the small little
functions that do one thing.
They're responsible for
resolving one value for one field.
So there's nothing stopping you from
just saying, I'll just check for
off every in every single resolver
that needs it, and you're good to go.
So those are the three different ways.
But based off the what I said before here,
a good system and
these three different ways.
We're going to talk about
some of the pros and cons of
how these different approaches might
fit into a really good auth system and
which ones you might want to use and,
and why.
So talking about outside of graph QL,
using something like Express middleware
before the GraphQL Server executes, so
that's the example that I gave you.
The downside of this is, it completely
locks down all your GraphQL queries and
mutations, because you're
outside the server.
So I've done this before and basically
what you get into is like, all right?
Everything GraphQL
related is authenticated,
everything that is not authenticated
an't be GraphQL related.
So, you either make regular
routes on the express server, or
you literary make a whole
another GraphQL server
next to the authenticated server and
that was not authenticated.
I've seen that happen before.
Either way,
it's probably not the best approach.
It doesn't really tie well into
the flexibility of GraphQL of
being able to access things on
a field level and stuff like that.
So I would say probably,
stay away from this one.
In any scenario,
if you want to lock down the entire API,
I would probably still stay
away from this approach.
Because there is extra
complexity of passing
the alt information to
the GraphQL execution.
And express is not that big of a deal cuz
you could just, in the middleware,
you can just attach something
to the request body.
And in the request body,
you can use that in the context and
you can figure things out.
But in other sort of implementations,
this might not be as simple of passing
some outside information into
the execution context of GraphQL.
So there's always extra complexity there.
And that's always going
to be a point of fault.
So I recommend not doing that approach at
all, unless you have a really good reason.
Like for instance, your GraphQL server
is dynamically generated based off
something in your database.
So therefore, you do need to authenticate
before your server executes.
So like we actually do that
in our example, there's we
actually can't even run a graphical
server, unless we authenticate you first.
So that might be an extreme example where
you would have to do something like that.
So when creating the context object,
the second approach, so
you can use the context creation function
when creating your Apollo server.
Again, I can just go back to
show you what I'm talking about
when I when I mentioned that,
if you don't remember what that is.
That's basically here and Apollo server,
you can use this context method like this.
And whatever you return here is going
to be an object that gets passed
as the third argument to
every single resolver.
So every resolver is going to get
a context objects, like here.
And that object is going to
be whatever you return, here.
And this object is computed
every single request.
It's never the same and unless it is,
and you can also be asynchronous.
So, you can do pretty much
whatever you want in here.
You also get access to things like the
request object from in this case express.
So you do some pretty crazy stuff in here.
This is what I'm talking about.
When I say Context object,so like I said,
you can access the incoming request
to determine authentication.
So if your authentication is like a WT,
and
you're using the authentication header,
that's the perfect place to grab it.
And then there really is no extra work
that passes to the graph qL resolvers
because whatever you return, gets
passed in with the execution for free.
So there's no trying to figure out how do
we get this authentication info down to
the execution of graph ql.
You not have to worry about, just
return the objects, you're good to go.
So, also you have the ability to lock
down the entire schema if you want to.
This is why I said if you do want to
lock down the entire GraphQL API,
I still wouldn't use the first approach
of doing outside of GraphQL.
I will just do it here,
because you can also lock down
the entire GraphQL API here.
You can just say, I'm not gonna return
object was gonna throw an error because
you're your unauthenticated.
And that's probably a better
approach than doing it outside.
The last one that I mentioned was
basically inside the resolvers.
This one just has a whole bunch of cons.
I actually can't think of
anything good other than,
that it's the simplest to implement
because it's the most natural one.
It's I think this is what most people
do when they first use graph QL they
fall in love with the resolvers.
And then they realize that
the resolvers can do anything and
the resolvers are like
super huge resolvers.
And as they get better and
understand graph QL more,
they try to find a way to
keep the resolvers skinny.
So a lot of people just put
everything in the resolver,
authentication, authorization,
transactions.
I mean whatever you want,
you stored in resolver.
And that's kinda how it starts out, before
you start figuring out different patterns.
So I think because of that it's
the simplest to implement, but
it is really the hardest to reuse.
Because you have that authentication,
logic authorization logic tied
up with the business logic.
And to me, that's just too much.
Those are separation of concerns, there
are two different systems, the business
logic doesn't need to know about
the authentication logic and vice versa.
As you just assume something,
like it should just to
just like if you were to lock
down the whole GraphQL server.
That graphQL execution assumes
that whoever is accessing
it is always authenticated,
they're always authorized,
they don't have to do the check or
the resolvers will work the same way.
They should already assume that they're
good to go, they shouldn't have to worry
about hold on now are you allowed
to do what I'm about to do?
That's shouldn't be their job,
they should just do what they need to do,
and that's it.
So I almost always recommend not adding
authentication and authorization this way.
So it's not, not a good thing.